Updates
=======

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   updates/decimal-upgrade-to-1-04
   updates/decimal-upgrade-to-1-03
   updates/decimal-upgrade-to-1-02
   updates/previous-versions

The IATI standard is a living entity that will require improvement over
time. These changes will be driven by the suggestions and experiences of
the publishers and users of IATI-format data, and managed by the IATI
Steering Committee through its Secretariat and Technical Advisory Group.

There are two types of upgrades:

Decimal Upgrades
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

****Minor**** or ****Decimal**** Upgrades (e.g. from 1.01 to 1.02) will
cover:

-  bug-fixes

-  code list modifications

-  minor additions to the standard which improve the functionality
   without introducing substantial new content

-  changes will be optional

-  changes will be backwardly compatible.

Major Upgrades
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

****Major**** or ****Integer**** Upgrades (e.g. from 1.x to 2.x) will
cover

-  substantial additions involving new areas of data

-  new mandatory fields

-  changes that are not backwardly compatible

-  proposed minor upgrades that are disputed by one or more signatories.

Open Consultation on all proposed changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All proposed changes, both major and minor, will be published on the
IATI Knowledge Base
(`http://support.iatistandard.org/forums <http://support.iatistandard.org/forums>`__).
Anyone can make a proposal, and the forum allows for a public exchange
on the merits of the proposal to take place. The TAG Secretariat will
contribute to these exchanges and will draft proposals for the formal
formats required by the standard and xml schema.

Decimal Upgrade Procedures
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Once a quarter the TAG Secretariat will select those proposals meeting
the above mentioned guidelines and prepare a proposed decimal upgrade.
The contents of this proposed upgrade will be published on the Knowledge
Base and all signatories and publishers of IATI data will be informed of
its contents by email. If no objections are received within 14 days, the
upgrade will be submitted to the IATI Secretariat for approval, and the
upgrade will be implemented.

Any objections will be addressed through further open discussion and
modifications to try to achieve consensus of the participants disputing
the proposal, with the IATI Secretariat acting as arbiter as necessary.
The consultation period will be extended by a further 14 days if an
objection results in a change to the proposed upgrade. If consensus
cannot be reached the proposed change will be referred to a major
upgrade.

Major Upgrade Procedures
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The timing and planning for a major upgrade will be approved by the
Steering Committee. All proposed changes will be fully documented and
circulated to all signatories. There will be a consultation period,
during which all comments and proposed modifications will be circulated.
At the end of this period all signatories will be asked for their
approval. Major upgrades will require the formal consent of signatories.

