1.05 Changes
============

Changes / Additions to IATI Standard for version 1.05

Schema Changes
--------------

A full diff of all schema changes in 1.05 can be found in github at https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Schemas/compare/version-1.04...version-1.05#files_bucket

.. _1_05_activities_schema_changes:

Activities schema
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- Updated description text to :doc:`planned-disbursement </activity-standard/iati-activities/iati-activity/planned-disbursement>` attribute (`discussion <http://support.iatistandard.org/entries/50424779-Add-a-description-in-the-schema-to-planned-disbursement-element>`__)

> The planned disbursement element should only be used to report specific planned cash transfers. These should be reported for a specific date or a meaningfully predictable period. These transactions should be reported in addition to budgets - which are typically annual breakdowns of the total activity commitment.

Organisations schema
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes were made in 1.05


Codelist Changes
----------------

New Codelists
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No new codelists were added in 1.05


Updated Codelists
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Embedded codelist changes**:

- Updated description for ``Incoming Funds`` on codelist :doc:`/codelists/TransactionType` has been updated

> Funds received (whether from an external source or through internal accounting) for specific use on this activity.
(`discussion <http://support.iatistandard.org/entries/50777388-Description-For-Transcation-Type-Incoming-Funds-Is-Incorrect>`__)

- Added ``5`` (*Third Party*) to :doc:`/codelists/RelatedActivity` (`discussion <http://support.iatistandard.org/entries/54201556-related-activity-new-code>`__)

- Added ``B11`` (*Sector strategy*), ``B12`` (*Thematic strategy*), ``B13`` (*Country-level Memorandum of Understanding*), ``B14`` (*Evaluations policy*), ``B15`` (*General Terms and Conditions*) to :doc:`/codelists/DocumentType` (`discussion <http://support.iatistandard.org/entries/86661313-Document-Types->`__)

- Added ``4`` (*Other*) to :doc:`/codelists/DescriptionType` (`discussion <http://support.iatistandard.org/entries/22922878-Description-type-extend-the-codelist>`__)
> For miscellaneous use. A further classification or breakdown may be included in the narrative.

- Added ``RO2`` (* Reporting Organisation (2)*) to :doc:`/codelists/Vocabulary`
> where reporting organisations have more than one vocabulary that they wish to reference.

- Added ``6`` (*Suspended*) to :doc:`/codelists/DescriptionType` (`discussion <http://support.iatistandard.org/entries/43247528-Activity-Status-Suspended->`__)

	
**Non-Embedded  codelist changes**:

- :doc:`/codelists/PolicyMarker` updated to include new values from OECD DAC
- :doc:`/codelists/PolicySignificance` updated to include new values from OECD DAC
(`discussion <http://support.iatistandard.org/entries/52320903-New-Policy-Markers-Significance-Codes>`__)

Documentation Changes
---------------------

- Guidance added to :doc:`/overview/dates/`
> ActivityStatus code 6 indicates a temporary suspension of an activity. In this state an activity is assumed not to be current, but future, forward-looking budgets are still assumed to be applicable.

- Guidance updated for :doc:`/overview/classifications/` around used of ``TiedStatus`` codelist
(`commit <https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Extra-Documentation/commit/af04ae4cff33e1ee28cfe75c710bafdb61caf07b>`__)
