Establishing Organisational Publishing Policies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


Once your organisation has committed to IATI publishing and the project team or IATI Champion is in place decisions need to be made about what, how and when data will be published.


The Implementation Schedule
===========================

The Implementation Schedule (currently in MS Excel format) is a living document (hence the version control) which can be updated and added to at any time, to reflect changes or additions to the way an organisation is reporting. It is produced to document how, what and when an organisation is reporting to IATI. 
The drafting of the Implementation Schedule can be done in parallel with preparing data for publication and should ideally be published along side the IATI data. 

Most of the following publishing policies are recorded in the body of the Implementation Schedule.

The Implementation Schedule can be downloaded from: http://support.iatistandard.org/entries/23287146-The-Implementation-Schedule


What Will Be Your Activity Unit of Aid? 
=======================================

It is important to define what the unit of aid being reported is. Organisations use a range of different definitions or may have different ways of identifying an ‘activity’. Examples of units of aid include: programmes, projects, sub-projects, activities, grants, etc.

Units of aid can also be hierarchical and an explanation needs to be provided on how the units of aid are split between hierarchy levels. For example, activities at hierarchy level 1 (or the ‘parent’ level) could cover things like programmes, umbrella projects or grant streams. Units of aid at hierarchy level 2 (or ‘child’ level) could include projects or sub-projects. It is also possible for activities to be related on a horizontal basis (‘siblings’). For example, a group of projects sitting under a programme could be classed as sibling activities. Related activities can be identified through providing the related activity identifiers when reporting on each individual activity.

It is also important to differentiate what data will appear at the different levels. For example, activity budgets could be reported at level 1, while transaction level data is reported at level 2. This also helps to avoid double counting, with monetary amounts being reported at the lowest possible hierarchical level (and not repeated or aggregated at higher levels). Lower level activities will inherit data from their parent activity.
 

How Often Will You Publish?
===========================

Organisations may typically publish updates annually, every 6 months, quarterly, monthly and even daily. Ideally IATI would want every publisher to publish as frequently as their information changes. However, IATI recognises that this is not always possible so it encourages publishers to select the most frequent publishing frequently that their organisation is able to support.


How Timely Will Your Data Be?
=============================

Timeliness of data relates to how current the data is when it is published. If you are publishing quarterly do you included transactions that have occurred right up to the day that you publish your information or are your most recent transaction those that occurred a month or so in the past? Timeliness is normally constrained to the accessibility and functioning of an organization's own accounting processes and systems. 


How Accurate Will The Data You Publish Be?
==========================================

it is important to consider how accurate your data is when it is published. Many organisations published information taken from unaudited accounts throughout the year that is then revised and republished once the accounts have been through the audit process. Is your data derived from estimated or actual figures or estimated or actual planning information. If data is initially published in an unvalidated format it is important to consider how and when your data can be recreated and published in its formalised format.


Do You Need To Establish Thresholds?
====================================

Many organisations carry out many regular transactions across multiple activities which can mean that the amount of information and not least the quantity of transaction data can appear unmanageable. In order to reduce the burden of publishing huge amounts of information your organisation can choose to aggregate financial information so that only transactions over a certain amount are ever published. For instance DFID have selected to only publish financial transactions that are for a value of £500 or over.


s There Data That You Will Not or Cannot Publish?
=================================================

If your organisation carries out works which could be considered by others as controversial or unethical eg. providing family planning services to people who live in catholic countries, education of girls within cultures that are seen as oppressive to women etc.,  you may not want to publish all the details of your work in order to both protect those who are doing the work as well as the intervention itself. Similarly if you are working in sensitive geographic areas you may not wish to publish details of your work and the areas in which it is taken place. In such circumstances you can elect to only publish minimal details or even to not publish any details at all.


What Is The Scope of the Data To Be Published? 
===============================================

Each organisation needs to understand where it sits within the Aid delivery supply chain and report accordingly. Basically an organisation needs to only report on activities for which they either receive payments or make payments for or are directly involved in in some other way


Where Will You Publish Your IATI Datafiles? 
===============================================

When you publish your information you do not give your information to IATI to look after. You will instead create an account on the IATI Registry that will hold (along with other information) the URL of where your IATI files are located. IATI therefore asks its publishers to host the datafiles that contain their IATI information on their 's own web servers. This is because data that is located within a publisher's own web space has greater integrity due to it being located at source. Therefore you will probably need to work with your IT or web team in order to identify a location where your IATI information can be hosted. If you have decided to create an IATI specific web page you might decide that it should include links to your IATI files?


How Will You License Your Information? 
======================================

When you publish your information you will also need to license how that data can be used by third parties. You specify the licensing of the file within the information held on your IATI Registry account. As the intention of IATI is to make information freely available to anyone who wants to use it we recommend that you choose one of the following license types.

- Public domain – no copyright, database rights, or contractual rights over the open aid information. [3] Examples include Creative Commons’ CC0 tool and the Open Data Commons Public Domain Dedication and License (PDDL); Example available here:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nHvDx2JN5qc07vszHKc6Ow1eSEyo02YrbFFR9Y5sQVU/edit?authkey=CLv0h88D&authkey=CLv0h88D OR
- Attribution-only open licenses – licenses that allow for use and reuse, with the only restriction being that attribution (credit) be given. Examples include the Creative Commons Attribution licenses (CC-BY) and the Open Data Commons Attribution License. Example available here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oXATsAI8zhwYM4gI8RpUs8z4KyUCXgKa67b3KJ2-jUA/edit?authkey=CPr8jqMP&authkey=CPr8jqMP 

For further details on the IATI licensing background, please visit http://iatistandard.org/standard/licencing 

To find templates and further guidance for licenses, please visit Open Data Commons: http://opendatacommons.org/licenses/


Produce an Open Data Policy For Your Organisation
=================================================

Having gone through the experience of considering what data can and cannot be openly published along with making decisions about how that is achieved, it is good practice to use the knowledge gained by the experience to produce an Open Data Policy for your organisation that should apply not just to IATI data but any data that is published externally. 

More information about creating an open information policy can be found at: http://support.iatistandard.org/entries/20858941-Open-Information-Exclusions
